# Lightning Multiplexer

This repository contains the code for the `lnmux` library. The problem that `lnmux` solves is fail-over for incoming Lightning payments. BOLT11 invoices are bound to a single node. If that node goes down, the invoice is no longer payable. The same is true for the node or its peers running out of inbound liquidity.

What `lnmux` allows you to do is set up a cluster of nodes where each of these nodes can settle any invoice. If a node is unable to accept payments for one of the reasons above, senders will still be able to pay the invoice via one of the other nodes.

Even with all nodes in the cluster available, it can be advantageous for the sender to have multiple routing options to better utilize liquidity and minimise fees. If needed, multi-part payments can be completed through more than one cluster node.

## Running

For the setup, it is assumed that there are multiple LND nodes running with connections to the wider Lightning network and sufficient inbound liquidity. Several LND changes are required for this to work. These changes are in master, but not in a release yet. So for now, the LND nodes need to be built from master.

`lnmux` is a library that is intended for integration into an existing backend service. For demonstration purposes, a self-contained executable is provided in `cmd/multiplexer`.

The steps below describe how to use this executable.

* Run the `lnd` nodes with the `--requireinterceptor` option. This ensures that
  HTLCs are always offered to interceptor applications eventually, even when
  there are momentary disconnects. Not running with this option can lead to
  HTLCs failing after the invoice that they pay to has been marked as settled. 

* Create a postgres database

* Create a config file for `multiplexer` named `multiplexer.yml`. An [example](multiplexer.yml.example) can be found in this repository. The config file contains the following elements:
  * LND nodes configuration: TLS certificate, macaroon, address and pubkey. Pubkey is configured as a protection against unintentionally connecting to the wrong node.
  * Postgres connection string for the database created above.
  * 32-byte Identity PRIVATE key. This key is used to generate invoices and decode incoming htlcs. In a production environment, this key must be protected carefully.

* Initialize the database: `go run ./cmd/multiplexer -c multiplexer.yml migrate init`

* Migrate the database to the latest version: `go run ./cmd/multiplexer -c multiplexer.yml migrate up`

* Run `multiplexer`: `go run ./cmd/multiplexer -c multiplexer.yml run`. This opens connections to all LND nodes via the HTLC interceptor API. When HTLCs come in, they are matched against the invoice database. If there is a match, the invoice is marked as settled and a settle action is returned to the LND instance holding the HTLC. For multi-part payments, `multiplexer` holds matching HTLCs until the full invoice amount is in.

* Invoice generation is taken over by `multiplexer`. It is no longer a responsibility of the LND nodes. To generate an invoice, run: `go run ./cmd/multiplexer -c multiplexer.yml addinvoice --amt 5000 --desc test`. If you decode the invoice, you'll find route hints from each node in the cluster to the `multiplexer` public key. `multiplexer` acts as a virtual node without real channels.

  Below is an example invoice generated by `multiplexer`.
```
{
    "destination": "03422175ba6fed348de4f273cf81627c26d5ab2a78bfdc1a39e6f9c06354dd9371",
    "payment_hash": "fd3b0f9a077006697ba8f82cc5673d1511cb11d1d1012662bf0c0b3c93f4245e",
    ...
    "route_hints": [
        {
            "hop_hints": [
                {
                    "node_id": "020723c6f2203f1072336bd0e71bf4d11e367ab0b3010ce60c080abef0d4770db8",
                    "chan_id": "12345",
                    "fee_base_msat": 0,
                    "fee_proportional_millionths": 0,
                    "cltv_expiry_delta": 40
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "hop_hints": [
                {
                    "node_id": "026ff75cb2ff49b864833aa3c93970069070231a9ad64819252e190406dd0a6976",
                    "chan_id": "12345",
                    "fee_base_msat": 0,
                    "fee_proportional_millionths": 0,
                    "cltv_expiry_delta": 40
                }
            ]
        }
    ],
    "payment_addr": "8f135e331fed1858e467f775fa644751a2b0da17ee0676ebb1bc8a994d667be6",
    "num_msat": "6000",
    "features": {
        ...
    }
}
```

* It should be possible to pay this invoice as long as at least one node in the cluster is available.

## Expected output

If you've set up `multiplexer` correctly, output similar to what is shown below is expected.
* Interception is started on all of your nodes
* When an HTLC comes in, it is matched against the invoice database. If there is a match, the invoice is loaded into memory.
* The total amount of the HTLC set is tracked. When the total amount matches the invoice amount, HTLC settle resolutions are sent to LND.

```
2022-04-19T08:39:09.333+0200	INFO	Succesfully connected to LND	{"node": "020723c6f2203f1072336bd0e71bf4d11e367ab0b3010ce60c080abef0d4770db8"}
2022-04-19T08:39:09.339+0200	INFO	Succesfully connected to LND	{"node": "026ff75cb2ff49b864833aa3c93970069070231a9ad64819252e190406dd0a6976"}
2022-04-19T08:39:09.347+0200	INFO	InvoiceRegistry starting
2022-04-19T08:39:09.347+0200	INFO	Press ctrl-c to exit
2022-04-19T08:39:09.347+0200	DEBUG	Starting htlc interception	{"node": "026ff75cb2ff49b864833aa3c93970069070231a9ad64819252e190406dd0a6976"}
2022-04-19T08:39:09.347+0200	DEBUG	Starting htlc interception	{"node": "020723c6f2203f1072336bd0e71bf4d11e367ab0b3010ce60c080abef0d4770db8"}
2022-04-19T08:39:09.347+0200	DEBUG	Starting main event loop
2022-04-19T08:39:23.166+0200	INFO	Htlc received	{"hash": "fd3b0f9a077006697ba8f82cc5673d1511cb11d1d1012662bf0c0b3c93f4245e", "source": "026ff75cb2ff49b864833aa3c93970069070231a9ad64819252e190406dd0a6976", "circuitKey": "1161084279062528:7"}
2022-04-19T08:39:23.224+0200	DEBUG	Loaded invoice from db	{"hash": "fd3b0f9a077006697ba8f82cc5673d1511cb11d1d1012662bf0c0b3c93f4245e"}
2022-04-19T08:39:23.225+0200	DEBUG	Hodl subscribe for 1161084279062528:7
2022-04-19T08:39:23.225+0200	DEBUG	Htlc accepted: hash=fd3b0f9a077006697ba8f82cc5673d1511cb11d1d1012662bf0c0b3c93f4245e, amt=6000 mSAT, expiry=1110, circuit=1161084279062528:7, mpp=total=6000 mSAT, addr=8f135e331fed1858e467f775fa644751a2b0da17ee0676ebb1bc8a994d667be6
2022-04-19T08:39:23.237+0200	DEBUG	Sending settle resolution	{"hash": "fd3b0f9a077006697ba8f82cc5673d1511cb11d1d1012662bf0c0b3c93f4245e", "source": "026ff75cb2ff49b864833aa3c93970069070231a9ad64819252e190406dd0a6976", "circuitKey": "1161084279062528:7", "outcome": "settled"}
```

## Regtest testing

The minimal setup to test on regtest is to create three LND nodes A, B and C. Create channels between B and A and between B and C. Connect `multiplexer` to the nodes A and C. Pay invoices from node B, while experimenting with online status and liquidity of A and C.

## Experimental

This software is in an experimental state. Use at your own risk.

